No one wants to manage
databases. If they can avoid
it. That's why Mongo DB
made Mongo DB Atlas, a
global cloud database service that
runs on AWS, GCP and
Azure. You can deploy a
fully managed Mongo DB database
in minutes with just a
few clicks or a few
API calls, Mongo DB, Atlas,
automates deployment, automates updates, handles
scaling, and more so that
you can focus on your
application instead of taking care
of your database, you can
get started free@mongodb.com slash Atlas.
Now, if you're already managing
a Mongo DB deployment, Atlas
has a live migration service,
so you can migrate it
easily with minimal downtime and
then get back to what
matters. Stop managing your database
and start using Mongo DB
Atlas. Alright, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is number one
minutes today. I'm talking with
dr. Denise. She is a
researcher in the software analysis,
intelligent st. Group at Microsoft.
How are you? I'm good,
Scott, how are you doing?
I'm getting there. I'm happy
to be chatting with you.
I just, I do not
have a PhD and I
will tell you, I am
intimidated by people with them
because it's so fun to
get to think and analyze
for a living. Did you
know that you wanted to
think that deeply from the
very beginning? That's a good
question. So I didn't always
know I wanted a PhD
actually that happened throughout my
undergraduate research experience, but I
knew, I liked to think
deeply about some problems and
be able to analyze data
and figure out how we
can design systems to build
things so I can give
them a laundry list of
cool high school projects I
did, but I was really
interested in helping people and
the ability to have the
systems around them. So apps
and things like that in
high school. So it kind
of really sparked my interest
in computer science. So, Hmm.
And when people say, think
deeply about something, sometimes people
like poke poke at that
and they say, you're thinking
too much. Like it's not
that hard, right? They'll look
at the science of interpersonal
reactions, but it is a,
it is a science, like
there are scientific methods. Are
there not to make people
get along better work in
teams, better include people in
teams better. It's not just,
just, Hey, y'all relax. It's
not that big of a
deal. Oh yeah, for sure.
There's, we're definitely applying the
scientific process for these things
where we're identifying strategic research
questions or we're carving out
those areas. So we can
build the research questions and
design the correct methodology to
figure out with the best
way to approach this question
or based on whether the
answers we're interested in. So
a lot of my work
takes a mixed methods approach
where it's qualitatively identifying and
then quantitatively validating to understand
the challenges that programmers face
when asking for help the
mechanisms that they use to
help them encourage participation and
there designing on platform mechanisms
to encourage that desire participation.
So my work is at
the intersection of software engineering
and human computer interaction and
online community. So it's important
to be able to design
methodologies that are responsive to
those. So the intersection between
those two spaces, so your
PhD is in computer science,
but you also have a
focus on, on cognitive science
is that, that is how
the brain thinks and works.
Yeah, Yes. That is exactly.
You have the brain thinks
and works. So I was
really excited about doing this
minor graduate minor in cognitive
science, something I always wanted
to do an undergraduate by
that didn't really have quite
the time cause I was
an athlete and trying to
finish computer science for four
years. So it was important
for my research area, as
I was blossoming, to be
able to understand how people
learn about systems, how they
learn, how the interact with
one another and how does
it influence their technical output.
So the minor to graduate
minor gave me a little
bit more insight into how
those things work, especially for
eye movements, I'm movement. So
that one is the one
that I think is like,
you have a ton of
publications and by the way,
like it may not seem
like, like fun to the
folks that are listening. But
if you discover a cool
PhD, I like to collect
PhDs and like share them
like Pokemon. Like, could you
read this paper? Have you
seen dr. Ford's work because
you are very prolific and
a number of your papers
are really, really, actually really
interesting to read, which I
don't think that the lay
person would think, Hey yeah,
reading PhD papers is super
fun. It actually is. But
the eye tracking one and
that the work that you
have been doing in the
space of eye tracking is
interesting. Maybe you could explain
why, what is eye tracking
measure and why is it
significant? Yeah. So one study
that maybe mentioning is a
study. I did to understand
how developers reviewed contributions. So
how they reviewed pull requests
on GitHub. And the reason
we went to figure out
was that there was a
lot of hypotheses or people
were speculating about how social
signals would be used or
if they're important or not
in how we evaluate our
technical contribution of a pull
request where ideally the technical
contribution should just be the
code, write the code snippet
period. Don't even look at
the comment don't even to
look at the issue, commit
the issue that may, this
may have been attached to
them. And I want to
design a study to figure
out if that was really
the case, how developers actually
reviewed pool requests and versus
what they actually said. So
would they report it Interesting.
So sometimes I feel like
like naysayers in the space
of inclusion are just like,
Hey, it's just code. Like
everybody can write code. Why
are we worrying about people
and personalities and, and race
and gender and faces like
that. They try to dismiss
these things because like you're
saying the only thing that
should matter is the code.
Are you saying that if
there is additional peripheral context
around a pull request that
that can affect how I
might react to the book?
Oh, for sure. So what
I'll say is that, so
for the study where we're
using this, I, my hypothesis
that if people are looking
at this content, then they
are attending to it as
it is on their mind,
not to say that it's
using this Ima hypotheses, not
to say that they are,
is it distinct factor or
significant in their decision process,
but we know it is
of value in some way,
period. Right? So the point
of the experiment was to
see how people are, are
using that information. So if
GitHub is truly, or how
we do pull requests, how
we review that whole code
review process, if it's truly
a meritocracy, nothing else should
matter. Then the code will
be found out actually was
that after doing a pre
and post survey, in addition
to the study of reviewing
these pull requests of an
identifiable woman, identifiable man, and
an unidentifiable person that people
do actually use the avatar
image, which is very small
on the pull requests, the
single commit of a pull
request page, it's very small
area surface area there, but
all our participants reviewed that
information, even though only one
reported that it was valuable
to them in some way.
Right? So whether or not
we are aware that we're
using this information, we are
attending to it. And it's
important that to know that
this is our way of
understanding the unconscious decisions that
we're making and value structures
that we have. So for
another one, a part of
that was looking at, let's
see the technical peripheral content
such as the commit message,
this person's previous projects, they're
pinned projects, the rate of
contribution. So the contribution heat
map, these are all examples
of technical, that technical peripheral
information you were asking about
that are value to code
reviewers. Okay. I feel like
there's a ton to unpack
there. I want to roll
back over a couple of
things. I don't want to
hit them for the, for
the audience and for myself.
So first thing you talked
about was, and you said
it very fast, the I
mind hypothesis. So what is,
what is that, what does
that hypothesis, what is the
relationship or the postulate that
that is making from the
way the eye and the
mind develop information that comes
in? Right? So the, the
postulate there is that way
we understand the world the
way we process information. One
way of doing that is
through, through our eyes, through
vision as, and that's our
way of taking in content.
And we use this tool
of vision in order to
understand the world and to
make our decisions for pool
requests. It's a very for
reviewing code on your desktop,
the tools you have to
do that you'd only have
your vision, right. And your
cursor, and that's all the
only tool you're using to
digest that information. So that's
the tool that was used
to measure how much of
interest that content was. And
again, can really distinct use
the value, right? Based on
the study that we were
doing there, we're seeing some
additional factors to manage that.
But the Ima hypothesis, again,
is you are attending to
which you're looking at as
in, you were, you were
taking in which you're looking
at that is of consideration.
Okay. So paraphrasing it for
my understanding, it doesn't say,
Oh, this person rejects women's
pull requests because clearly their
eye goes to the profile
picture or this person rejects
pull requests of a certain
race because they look at
that. It is simply an
acknowledgement that what their eye
fixates on is part of
the processing. It doesn't make
any qualitative judgment. It simply
tracks the quantity like, Oh,
they glanced there. That's a
thing. There was no lag
between what they fixated on
and what they processed. Right.
So also in addition to
that, we did see quite
a bit of fixation on
these areas, right? So there's
also in the case, it
is of importance or of
some type of value system,
right. To say, so you
can use the fixation. So
as the, when people focus
on a certain area of
interest and a combination with
the scan path, which is
a series of fixations, to
be able to understand what
other values or what other
areas of interest contribute to
making a decision. Right. Yeah.
Interesting. And that's, that's something
proposed to think about. So
you might be thinking as
you're listening to this show
that like, there are judgment
calls that are being made
or that someone is going
to judge you based on
what you look at when
you're looking at a pull
request. But we know that
gaze techniques are used to
make people look at ads
like layouts of popular websites
and news sites are set
up to optimize for what
they want you to look
at. Like the environment that
are manmade versus ones that
are, that are natural are
treated differently. Like you have
to say, this was a
designed page. Did my eye
go where it needed to
go to do what I
needed to do was the,
was this page optimized for
my tasks? Right. Right, exactly.
So this is no slide
at the designers of GitHub.
This is how we review
code, right? These are, these
are signals that are available
to us. So you go
to somebody's main profile page,
the avatar image is fairly
large and you have the
rate of contribution. So you
can use it as your
CV, essentially, you know, this
can be comparable to how
we evaluate technical contributions in
other spaces. This is the
norm that we've set for
understanding other people who may
be contributing to our work.
So figuring out how that
translates is important. Yeah. Now
in the, in the eighties
and I fixation study was
done with someone named carpenter
and I've heard the term
carpentered environments, is that a
coincidence, the idea of a
created environment versus a natural
environment? That's actually a coincidence.
I think I'm not really
sure. The reason I ask
is that, you know, I
fixation and comprehension was done
in the, in the eighties
by Patricia Carpenter at Carnegie Mellon.
And then I hear about
carpentered environments, which is just
a way of saying environments
that have been built except
it's used with a lowercase
C. So I was kind
of curious if Patricia Carpenter had
kind of like come up
with that, or that was
just a total coincidence. I
don't know. I would say
there may be a, there's
a great coincidence. I know
the breakdown normally site for
the, I, my hypothesis is
just in carpenter. So Patricia Carpenter,
but that is actually really
interesting. I mean, I also,
this, I might have policies
will apply to other spaces
as well, even beyond manmade
systems. Right. And so the
same way of you're looking
out window and you see
a butterfly, right. Or you're
following, you're following the path,
right. This is the equivalent
of like the Ima hypothesis
that I'm referring to for
code review. Yeah, indeed. And
your paper talks about how,
you know, one's attention has
to be sustained and focus.
One is by, in programming
and thinking and analyzing a
pull request or doing anything
with code requires sustained attention
so that it makes sense
that eye gaze and the,
what did you call it?
The path, the standard path,
yes. Would be very valuable
data. Yeah. So you're drawing
a relationship between the shifts
of attention and this thing
called a saccade. What is
this? Oh. Or people could
possible people pronounce it, many
different ways to Kate's one
way to understand this, a
cut that people make is
when people are focusing on
an area and your eye
to, in order to capture
the entire area, your eye
movements are doing a, a
set of quick movements, actually
in order to understand a
full experience. So I'll give
an example. When, when you're
reading a sentence on paper,
the way you read it
in the U S in
American national language is from
left to right. Of course.
And when you're taking in
the sentence, when you're reading,
you would find that your
gaze does a little bit
of a couple skips, right?
You're skipping over areas. Cause
you kind of have a
grip on what those words
are and your brain is
trying to understand the rest
of the passage and actually
have a video. Obviously can't
show on book podcasts, but
I have a link on
my blog. I'll put a
link in the show notes.
I have a link on
my blog actually shows that
even before one of our
participants could review a pull
request or could confirm out
loud the decision to accept
or decline or merge or
not merged as pull requests.
They do a series of
sockets when they're focusing on
area. So when they're looking
at the actual code snippet
for review, they're doing a
bunch of quick little jumps
around that area as a
way of reading, right? And
the skin path that you
can consider is the series
of those movements for different
areas of interests. Interesting. One
of the things that we
think about is we want
to think about are our
bias, our implicit bias, our
internal bias, and you didn't
just go and say, well,
this is about women and
men. You also had a,
an icon, an avatar that
was just a, one of
those blobs. One of those
generated gravity bars. But you
also looked at the get
graph that green graph at
the bottom, which I think
makes me feel guilty about
myself. Like I'm not working
hard enough, but I started
to realize after, after reading
your papers, that I am
applying a huge amount to
that green graph indicating that,
well, they must know what
they're doing because it's really
green at the bottom there.
Right. And I don't know
if that's a good bias
or not, but you had
me because I thought about
this. I realized, wow, my
eye is consistently drawn to
this big green blob. What
do I do with that?
Now that you've, now that
you've told me that this
is a thing I don't
know, do do I do
anything at all? Well, I
mean, this is important to
acknowledge that you know, that
we all have these systems
that are set up and
the who, that's, how we
interpret these pages. Right? And
we get in our own
rhythm and cadence of how
to interpret those things. The
green, large graph, the contribution
graph heat map, as I
sometimes call it is at
the center of the page,
depending on, you know, is
it the center slightly to
the right, but in the
middle of the page. So
it's naturally gravitate to your
attention and those items that
are larger. We'll also do
that as well, especially there.
So there's something that my
colleagues were bringing up as
this ability for humans to
focus on our face or
sister, it shouldn't identify a
face. So that's also like
a threat, right? If you're
looking for someone like you,
right. You're trying to identify
how normal something is. You're,
you're going to be drawn
to the face, right? If
your establishment of normal is
to say, Oh, their productivity
is important. That contribution heat
map is going to be
a focus point for you
a focal point. So, but
it's also funny that you
mentioned the contribution heat map
because people can gain that
people draw cute little figures
and chat intention to contribute
on certain days and X
amount of times on certain
days. So it can write
high or a cool message
on their profile page, Which
is a really great point.
So if I were using
that to judge whether or
not I would hire someone
or interview them, I can't
trust it. It's an unreliable
narrator just as the avatar
is an unreliable narrator. It
could be a Simpson's character,
as far as I know
Exactly, exactly. Actually in this
study, we also not in
this paper that we publish,
but this is all part
of a larger study. We
also do this implicit association
test to be able to
understand. So this is the
Harvard implicit association tests where
anyone can actually go online
and test to see what
their associations with gender science
or gender career would be.
And we actually had our
participants go through that as
well. And that's kind of
upcoming in another study, but
to see how that can
influence afterwards, after they complete
the code review process, how
that influenced their decisions. And
we all have bias. So
we had a lot of
women who also Grande the
gamut, right. Of associating men
with computer science and women
with liberal arts. Yeah. Hey
friends, you know how I
love great podcasts. And I
want you to check out
the code newbie podcasts, all
about stories from folks on
their coding journey. They talk
to new developers, experienced developers
and everyone in between about
how they got started learning
to code how they navigate
their technical careers. And they
also do deep dives into
technical topics in a newbie
friendly way, check out their
podcast at www dot code
newbie. That's new B I
e.org/podcast. That's code newbie.org/podcast. I
think that it's important, the
whole point of these things
and why I liked having
these conversations is that I
think some people feel like
this is work that you're
using to make me whoever
I am feel guilty about
whatever context I come from.
I look at this differently
as, as a, I never
thought about it like that.
That's a little piece of
information that I can file
away so that I think
when review, like I, I
catch myself and I go,
Oh, wow. I didn't realize
I was noticing the, the
avatar or I was noticing
the graph and not thinking
about the code. Why was
my eye taken there? And
you actually call it in
your blog posts that the
get hub in 2010 profile
page is dramatically different than
the redesign in 2018, which
is designed to be more
friendly and more approachable. But
it really actually deemphasizes activity.
And at the emphasizes the
code. Yeah. I mean, even
I've seen on Twitter recently,
I think a couple developers
who are working on GitHub,
we're showcasing some, you think
even cooler attribution you can
make to your profile page.
I mean, it's GitHub being
like a social coding platform,
which is definitely a draw
for why people go there.
It's as important to note
that, you know, maybe this
allows people to bring their
authentic selves to their whole
programming experience now. Right. So
being mindful of that and
what that looks like and
how that could hopefully build
a more inclusive online programming
community. So when you make
a study like this, or
the many other studies that
you've done, are you coming
up with a, a hypothesis
ahead of time? Like I,
like I learned in high
school science, like, I think
this is a thing. And
then you work for a
year to prove that it's
a thing or not. And
then do you tell us
what we should do about
that? Or do you just
leave the conclusion up to
the reader? This is ASA.
Great question. So my research
and my dissertation area, kind
of those all three of
first identifying well looking at
previous literature to really understand
the area, the research area,
but identifying the barriers and
challenges that people face in
these communities mine's was focusing
initially well on gender. And
we identified barriers that exist
for people across the gender
spectrum. From there, identifying what
tools or techniques and mechanisms
people are using to kind
of overcome those challenges and
those barriers. And then like
the last major phase of
my dissertation was the stack
overflow mentorship program that I
worked on with stack overflow
to devise a better onboarding
experience, to welcome newcomers or
novice question askers and get
them help from expert users.
So I like for my
users to be able to
hit all those points of
like, we have to know
where we've been to know
where we're going. So we
have to identify both things
and then identify the problem.
What are people doing? How
can we adapt that at
scale or scale ish. And
then, Yeah. And on the
stack overflow, one that you
did, you called out that
if women ask a question
on stack overflow for the
first or second time, and
the reply comes from someone
who is identifiably, a woman,
they feel somehow more and
more welcomed and they're more
likely to come back. Which
I think is what I
always like to say is
if technology looks like the
mall, which I like going
to the mall, I like
the way that I like
the way the mall makes
me feel. I like the
way downtown Manhattan makes me
feel because it's people from
everywhere. If stack overflow, if
online communities, wherever they are,
feel like that, then everyone
feels better and everybody wins.
Yeah. Yeah. So I'm really
trying to figure out how
to recreate those feelings. Right.
And that exact product you
mentioned was with women, but
what does that look like
for culture? Right? So stack
overflow, you, they don't actually
data about, or isn't that
self reported about your gender
or so you, but you
do have access to what
country you're from. People can
self report what country they're
from. So maybe if I'm
a developer from Egypt and
I see other developers from
Egypt, engaging in the communities,
kind of like, okay, I
have a shared identity with
someone. Right. I can see
that. I could see a
bit of myself in them,
the references they use when
time to clarify programming problems.
And it's like, Oh, okay.
I see that there's a
space for me here. And
we want to figure how
we can recreate those. It's
it's funny that you say
that because there's all these,
all these little things that
make up one's identity, where
they grew up with went
to high school, we all
know how we feel. It's
like, Oh, you went to
my high school. Did you
know? So and so, and
then suddenly someone who was
a stranger five minutes ago
isn't right, right. And one
of the aspects of my
personality or my, my identity
is that I'm a type
one diabetic, but it's invisible.
It's not a thing you
see, but I have tubing,
I have medical implants. I've
got a number of, of
needles and tubes and things
in the batteries that are
all over me. But if
you don't see them, they're
not a thing. But if
I am out in the
world or I'm at a
conference or whatever, and I
see someone else's tubing coming
out of their clothes, I'll
go and I'll touch them
on the arm and I'll
go, Hey, and I'll show
him my insulin pump. And
then we will clink our
pumps together. Kind of like,
you know, when you go
cheers and you clink glasses
together, and it's like suddenly
a total stranger as a
friend. And then we're talking
about our journey with this
invisible disability. And it sounds
silly, but if I give
a talk and I'm like,
how many diabetics are in
the house? And like five
hands go up. It's like,
yeah, my people, that's a
good feeling. And there's so
many different ways. It could
be, Hey, people from Portland
or Hey, former Microsoft user,
Hey, whatever. And that's a
nice feeling and we should
make everyone feel like that.
Right. And that's the difference.
That's the first side of
inclusion that sometimes people don't
really isn't as clear. Right.
Isn't and I think it's
something that's really easy to
highlight, you know, allowing us
to understand that are shared
identities and people who even
don't look like you. Right.
So you've talked about that
with the diabetic experience, right?
You knew you saw it
there, their core coming out
their shirt and you're Oh,
let's let's connect. That doesn't
necessarily mean that person was
also like also from America
or also a white person
or also a man, you
know? So I think it's
important to acknowledge that there
are different ways to amplify
those shared differences and those
shared experiences that add value
to those who feel marginalized,
who are marginalized. And, but
the point is to not
just have them in their
corner doing their own thing,
but so allow them to
feel like they're a part
of the group, the group
at large, the community at
large. Definitely. I want to
shift gears a little bit
because there is a thing
that's been going on Twitter
a lot lately, when we
talk about white board programming
going and sitting in and
like, Hey, we're going to
come work at the company.
You're going to work on
machine learning. Dr. Ford, you
can do all kinds of
really important data work. But
before you do that work,
I want you to draw
a four loop on the
whiteboard. Why, why do we
insist on having people write
code on a whiteboard and
have trivia questions when it's
universally hated and tends to
be a little bit exclusionary?
That is an age old
question. I wish I knew
the answer to that. I
wish I think it's because
I think so when we're
in our development settings, as
a developer, my past, past,
super past life, you go
to the whiteboard to bring
some of those ideas that
some people's main interpretation or
main approach, to be able
to explain the ideas that
does not work for everyone
that takes practice. So even
for technical coding, interviews, people
practice for those people, practice
being able to speak their
ideas as they're writing them
on the board, that is
not an innate skill that
people have That right there.
Like, let me just pause
you for a second. Like,
people need to drink that
in for a second. You
know how, when you find
out that someone can't roll
their tongue and you're like,
are we even related? You
can't roll your tongue like
that. And like, Oh, well,
no, I just never thought
that was a thing. Like
I found that out about
one of my kids recently.
I don't know the genetics
of it, but I gotta
make a call. But when
I discovered that not everyone
can talk and move at
the same time, like think
and express and you know,
I'm thinking, and here's what's
happening in my head right
now. It's a synchronous thing
versus an asynchronous thing. Why
would I then exclude those
people accidentally or inadvertently, right.
Exactly. This is exactly what
happened. So, so the one,
one reason or one approach
to even doing this is
freaking out what is this
person's mean form of communicating.
So most developers code the
IDE, right? Yeah. Why aren't
our technical interviews. I'm going
to let people are transitioning
to this mode of giving
someone a project and letting
them work on it remotely
and then submit their project
so that they can use
whatever resources, work best for
them. And that's a, that's
a great best practice. Right.
But how do we recreate
that in person, if people
want people to come in
and also have the behavioral
part of the interviews, but
also have I need you
to work on this technical
task? Yeah. One of the
things that we've tried to
do in the developer division
of the last couple of
years is reboot our, our
interview process, such that we
actually have people come in
and work on a thing
side by side with the
actual people, they'd be working
on the thing with, and
the challenges of course you
don't want to accidentally get
free work from them. So
that's the thing like you
don't, you don't come in
and work for a week
for free. We'll take your
work and then do a
thing. But at the same
time is the work you're
being given in the interview
representative of the work you'd
be doing every day. Most
likely no. Most of the
time, no, because you're connecting
with the team. I can
talk briefly about some work
from home findings that, so
another project I'm working on
right now is the work
from home experience for developers.
And one of the main
coats, we did a qualitative
analysis at the medic analysis
on the responses that we
received. And one of that
was really interesting was the
collaboration part of being at
the whiteboard as in being
at the whiteboard with others,
not just yourself, being able
to explain new ideas, new
projects. So we've all been
working from home for quite
a while now. So I
used the COVID in 19,
the Puget sound Pacific Northwest
grade area, and people were
previously working on old projects
that were wrapping up already
had goals. Outlined what does
it look like now to
outline a new goal? When
your main media of doing
that is lost is no
longer shared. See, I so
true story. I have always
been remote at Microsoft, but
half my team is usually
in Redmond. So well, most
of my experiences have been
kind of over Skype over
teams. Now, just in the
last week, I have a
team now of nine, almost
10, 10, if you count
me, how do I reboot
this team? How do I
start us thinking, how do
I start new projects? How
do I get us collaborating?
Is it, you know, is
it word or Google docs
or Dar their teams, like
there's 15 different ways to
do it, but I don't
feel like we're getting the
same sense of collaboration because
we're, our hands are like,
Novacane, I'd be up there
like numb because these tools
are between us and the
thing that we want to
get out. There's this cognitive
load that is there because
of our remoteness Kind of
complexity this, now it should
deuce, or it has increased
right. Where it's harder to
communicate. Right? So that's, that's
another aspect of it that
you mentioned, like you're, so
I'm not trying to like
diagnose your problem, but, but
the media richness is missing.
Like rich enough, that communication
is gone now. So there
are alternatives like using the
whiteboard on teams, which I
know that some people have
used. It's really helpful if
you have like a pen
or a surface pen or,
you know, otherwise it's hard
to use your cursor. It
wasn't designed. I mean, how
do I say this? There
is a higher challenge And
mismatch, right? A mouse is
not a pen, but no
matter how much Solomon Khan
from the Khan Academy makes
it look like a pen.
It's not. So having a
real, you know, an iPad
with you or a surface
pen, it makes a huge
difference. It does. It does.
Interesting. Yeah. I feel like
that's a whole other show
right there that we'll talk
about. One of the things
that I've been telling, some
of the interns, we just
had a bunch of interns
join and I wanted to
make sure that they knew
that it was okay, that
this is not remote work.
This is something else, but
also an acknowledgement. I wonder
what you think about this?
The lizard brain, my lizard
brain knows you are not
here. We are having a
conversation on a podcast, over
a collaborative technology, but you
can't see me just stimulating
with my hands. You can't
see me nodding. The linguistic
back channel is limited to
me going, when, if you
were here, we would be
vibing because I'd be like,
Oh yeah, you see my
eyes and that's not here.
And on teams, it's, it's
two dimensional and it's not
normal to look at nine
people at a time on
a screen. That's not how
people lay at, sit out
on a, on a desk
and it's not comfortable, you
know, to talk to yourself
in a room. The lizard
brain knows. I'm talking to
myself right now in a
room Because listen to brain,
this was getting me blizzard
brain. Because the wrong thing
to say, I mean, It's
like the part of the
brain that's not conscious makes
like, you know, when you
get out of an airplane
and you're like tired and
you're like, I don't know
why I'm tired. I just
sat the whole time. The
body knows. Yes. Yes. I
mean, there's also aspects of
that that are draining, right?
I mean, you were talking
about, it's just not just
from, at work. This is
the remote work during a
pandemic, there is a crisis
happening. So what this means
is that what's happening outside
of your work is always
been important, right? Your work
life balance or what's happening
with your life, always been
important right now, Eating better
upstairs just right now. Sorry
if that came through the
microphone, but someone is just
body slam someone else. Sorry.
I used to live WWE
for what we're talking about.
The pandemic that is a
crisis happening upstairs and needed
to go. I need to
pick the broom now and
like make the broom handle
and pound It's a crisis
happening. And your mind knows
that every time you close
the computer and walk over
to, to use the restroom,
you're like, this is not
the usual hallway. I used
to walk down after work
to get a break, right?
You don't. So you don't
get in the car to
go or the get on
the bus or however you
commute to work, which sometimes
is your signal that you
have completed. The end of
Workday, right? Boundary is, is
blurred and is unclear. And
people are coming up with
their own rhythms and cadences
to figure out how to
show the end of the
Workday or to make themselves
feel like they've ended the
Workday comb with their new
establishment of norms. But it
looks different for everyone. And
I, and it's an ongoing
challenge. That is a huge
problem right now. If I,
if I stick my head
out the door or use
the restroom, Oh, you're done.
You're done working. No, I
just, I just need to
use the restroom. It would
be better if they didn't
see me because daddy's here,
he's in the house somewhere.
He wants to hang out
with us. Right. And it
just, it all makes you
feel bad. Yeah. But also,
I think there's also advantages
to being close to your
family now. Right? You have
maybe there's moments. You can
help them with their homework
now, or you get to
help them with different playing
baseball or something in the
backyard. Right. So there's the
advantage of that family proximity
as well. And then the
disadvantages where it feels like,
well, am I giving them
enough attention? Like I'm here,
but I am not physically
here with them or helping
them. So yeah, there's a
lot to consider here too.
It is. There's a lot
to consider and I really
appreciate you chatting with me
today. Dr. Denae for it.
Yeah, No problem. No problem.
Happy to be here. You
can check out the publications,
blogs and all the interesting
stuff that dr. Ford is
working on at her website
at  dot M E
I'll make sure that there's
a link to the show
notes, to the things that
we've talked about in the
papers that she's worked on.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .